---
lang: en-US
title: Testing The Test
prev: ../quick-start
next: ./parts-of-time
---

# Testing The Test

To construct a good test for random distribution through time, the framework for comparison should be evaluated to ensure equal-opportunity for both the real events as well as randomly generated ones. From the earthquake population we will of course use the timestamp, then generate random data to match. The wonderful world of the internet has made available lots of tools to generate random and pseudo-random data, even [random dates!](https://github.com/fzaninotto/Faker#fakerproviderdatetime) Boom. Done. Run it.

Would it work? Of course, but it would be a not-so-robust test. Why? Because these date/time generators are based on the [Unix epoch timestamp](https://www.epochconverter.com/) format. Dates are generated by the number of seconds that have occurred from the center point of Jan 1, 1970. The date of Jan 1, 1970 is the big zero of the that number line, and all timestamps before zero as negative seconds, and all time after are positive seconds. Running a test based on Unix epoch timestamps only test for opportunities between two dates _in seconds_. Therefore any test will flattened to that base measure. 

### Example

1 year = ~31,557,600 seconds

...making he odds of an exact match are approx 1:31,557,600. Lottery-type odds but fair is fair.

Unfortunately built into this method of measurement is the brittle concept that _time **is** that base unit of measure_. Yes, seconds are a good (and convenient!) measuring tool. But if we are testing time as a concept, with a more open hypothesis of _when do earthquake prefer to occur_, something more dynamic is needed. By separating categorical time values from our timestamps, there would be a variety of elements to test.
